# Airline1-

CS212  Project 1
Simplified Airline Reservation System
The goal of this project is to create a simple simulation of a booking system for a small airline that runs commuter flights between two cities on a daily basis. Your projects should just keep track of flights for the month of October 2017.
The classes that you develop could be used to create much more complicated simulations involving multiple airlines and many cities, but for this project only a very simple simulation is required.
Your project should use implementations for 5 classes called:
Main, Passenger, Ticket, Airline, Flight.
The Main class contains only static methods (and no instance variables). Its static methods are used to run the simulation and call on the other classes as needed. This should be the last class implemented and should carry out the simulation described below. It is best to start with the other four classes. For each of the classes you should begin by deciding what type to use for each of the instance variables. The next few paragraphs outline possible instance variables and methods for these classes. It is possible to implement the simulation using only these variables and methods, however you may use any other choice of variables and methods that allows you to carry out the required simulation.
The class Airline contains information about all the flights for an airline. It uses instance variables name and flights. The variable flights should be an ArrayList of Flight objects. The variable name is a String that gives the name of the airline.
The class Passenger contains information about a passenger. It uses instance variables firstName, lastName, address, phone and myT- ickets. The fteld myTickets is an ArrayList of tickets that is used to store all the airline tickets that have been booked by a passenger. The other ftelds should all be stored as Stings.
The class Ticket contains information about a ticket. It uses instance variables ticketNumber, myAirline, myPassenger, myFlight and price. The class should also have a static data fteld called counter which stores an integer that is increased every time a new ticket is issued. This static fteld can be used to make sure that ticket numbers are unique (and not shared by two different tickets). Ticket numbers are integers and prices have type double.
The class Flight contains information about a flight. It uses in- stance variables flightNumber, seats, filledSeats, flightLength, airline, date, originAirport, destination, departureTime and tickets. The fteld tickets should be an ArrayList of tickets that have been issued for the
 




flight. A static fteld called counter should be used to keep account of the different flights and make sure that each gets a different flight number.
For each of these four classes, there is one constructor. The pa- rameters for this constructor should give values for instance variables. However, if the value for an instance variable can be automatically generated no corresponding parameter should be used. So for ex- ample the Flight constructor would not use a parameter to specify filledSeats since this always begins with the value 0. Similarly, the constructor for a Ticket would not have a parameter to specify a ticketNumber since this is automatically generated by using the static fteld counter.
For each instance variable in each class you should implement a getter method. For each instance variable that could be changed you should implement a setter method too. However, for instance variables like a passenger name which are never changed do not supply a setter. This ensures that passenger names can’t be accidentally corrupted. For each of the four classes supply a toString method that can be used for testing purposes and can also provide useful output in the main simulation.
Several methods are used to ftnd a convenient flight that matches a choice of date and time. It is unlikely that the time that a passenger chooses here will happen to match the exact time of a scheduled flight, accordingly these methods will return all flights that depart on the correct date within 4 hours of the preferred time. The methods that belong to the four classes have the following title lines and tasks.
For the class Passenger:
  
void cancel(Ticket t)
cancels the passenger’s ticket t

ArrayList<Flight> findFlights(Airline a, String date, double time, String from) finds all flights for an airline on a particular date within 4 hours of a particular departure time from a particular city.

Ticket bookFlight(Flight f)
books a ticket for a particular flight (for the passenger).

boolean holdsTicket(Ticket t)
reports where the passenger holds a particular ticket

For the class Ticket:

void cancel() cancels the ticket
 




For the class Airline:

void cancel(Ticket t) cancels a ticket
void issueRefund(Ticket t)
issues a refund --- it just prints a message to the screen about which passenger has been credited how much money since in
this simulation we will not keep track of
bank balances for passengers or airlines.
ArrayList<Flight> findFlights(String date, double time, String origin) finds all flights for a 4 hour departure window
Ticket book(Passenger p, Flight f) books a passenger on a flight
double cost(Flight f)
gives the cost of a ticket for a particular flight.	Devise you own sensible pricing policy so that tickets get more expensive as a flight fills up.
void createFlight(double time, int numSeats, String from, String to)
creates a new flight for the Airline and makes sure that this flight operates every day.

For the class Flight:
  
boolean matches(String d, double t, String from)
Does the flight match date d, time t and originAirport from to within a 4 hour departure window
boolean hasSpace()
Are there any empty seats left? void addTicket(Ticket t)
Add a newly issued ticket to the flight boolean holdsTicket(Ticket ticket)
Does the flight already hold a particular ticket? void remove(Ticket ticket)
Remove a canceled ticket from the flight. double getCost()
Use the flight’s airline’s method to generate the cost of the next ticket for this flight.

For the class Main
You should create a main method that operates the following sim- ulation of a user’s booking experience. Before the user begins book- ing flights at step 4, the simulation needs to create an Airline and its scheduled list of flights. It then creates existing bookings so that some flights will already be full or near to full to simulate the possibility that our desired flight is already sold out. These existing bookings are created at step 3. Do not worry about generating sensible names or other data for the passengers at step 3, their only purpose is to
 




ftll seats. The interaction with the user takes place at steps 4 to 7. The user might decide to book several flights here and cancel some of them.
This main method might usefully call on other static methods to carry out parts of its task.
The simulation to be carried out by the main class is as follows:

1.	Create a new Airline object
2.	Randomly generate flights for the airline for the month of October 2017.
There should be about one flight per hour in each direction between 6am and 10pm. The same flights should operate each day of the month.
Flight numbers should be the same from day to day.
3.	Generate 10000 random passengers each of whom books one flight.

4.	Ask the user to create their passenger data.
5.	Run a loop of user interactions to allow the user to book and cancel flights.
6.	Each interaction either quits the loop, books a flight, or cancels a ticket.

7.	When the user finishes, print a list of all of the user’s booked tickets.
Here is a typical interaction of the program with a user.

Ready to book your flights.	Enter your first and last name please: Donald Duck
Type your address on one line please: Kissena Blvd, Flushing, NY 11366
Type your phone number on one line please: 718 997 3500
Ready to book your flights between Kennedy and Laguardia for October 2017 Do you want to book or cancel a flight? Answer Yes of No:
Yes
Enter C to cancel, K for a flight from Kennedy, or L for a flight from Laguardia K
Enter the day in October that you want to fly: 4
Enter an hour you would like to fly (in range 1 - 24) 11
Here are available flights:
Air	Queens	102	10.4.17	7.51	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	130.0
Air	Queens	104	10.4.17	8.05	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	150.0
Air	Queens	106	10.4.17	9.18	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	160.0
Air	Queens	108	10.4.17	10.42	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	190.0
Air	Queens	110	10.4.17	11.33	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	250.0
Air	Queens	112	10.4.17	12.08	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	280.0
Air	Queens	114	10.4.17	13.55	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	250.0
Air	Queens	116	10.4.17	14.39	from	Kennedy	to	Laguardia	ticket	cost	190.0
 




Type the number of the flight you wish to book: 112
Successfully Booked ticket.
Do you want to book or cancel a flight? Answer Yes of No: Yes
Enter C to cancel, K for a flight from Kennedy, or L for a flight from Laguardia L
Enter the day in October that you want to fly: 6
Enter an hour you would like to fly (in range 1 - 24) 9
Here are available flights:
Air	Queens	101	10.6.17	6.58	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	140.0
Air	Queens	103	10.6.17	7.13	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	160.0
Air	Queens	105	10.6.17	8.57	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	180.0
Air	Queens	107	10.6.17	9.27	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	210.0
Air	Queens	109	10.6.17	10.19	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	170.0
Air	Queens	111	10.6.17	11.55	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	220.0
Air	Queens	113	10.6.17	12.55	from	Laguardia	to	Kennedy	ticket	cost	230.0
Type the number of the flight you wish to book: 107
Successfully Booked ticket.
Do you want to book or cancel a flight? Answer Yes of No: Yes
Enter C to cancel, K for a flight from Kennedy, or L for a flight from Laguardia C
Here are the tickets you have booked:
1	Donald Duck booked on Air Queens 112 10.4.17 12.08 from Kennedy to Laguardia cost 280.0
2	Donald Duck booked on Air Queens 107 10.6.17 9.27 from Laguardia to Kennedy cost 210.0 Type the number of the ticket you wish to cancel:
2
Airline Air Queens refunds $210.0 to Donald Duck
Do you want to book or cancel a flight? Answer Yes of No: No
Thank you for booking with Air Queens Here is a list of your bookings:
Donald Duck booked on Air Queens 112 10.4.17 12.08 from Kennedy to Laguardia cost 280.
